das Leine, die Leinen	linen (textile)
der Stängel, die Stängeln	stem, stalk
wiegen, wog, gewogen	to weigh
verlässlich	reliable
ausbeuten	to exploit
die Beute	loot, booty
der Waage	scale
berufstätig	employed, working
der Flachs	flax
mordern	to murder
spannen	to strain, to stretch
stricken	to knit
brechen, brach, gebrochen	to break
der Schutz	protection
ringsum	all around
der Geruch	smell, odor
der Sterz	rump, tail
besonders	special
insbesondere	especially
der Eichenbaum	oak tree
giessen, goss, gegossen	to pour, to water
abwaschen, wusch abgewaschen	to do the dishes, to give a wash 
schälen	to peel, to shell
kostbar	precious, sumptuous, valuable
die Schale	shell, skin, husk
vorzeigen	to demonstrate, show, produce
sorgfältig	carefully, meticulous(ly)
je nach	according to
das Kraut, die Kräuter	herb
der Waldmeister	woodruff
der Kümmel	caraway seeds
der Fingerhut	thimble; foxglove (herb)
mager	meager
abernten	to harvest, to finish picking
verkaufen an	to sell to sb.
die Heublumen	hay flowers
handeln	to deal, to barter, to haggle
treiben	to sprout, to drive (animals, people)
pflücken	to pick, to pluck, to gather, to harvest
weitererzählen	to continue telling something, to retell, to get the word out
wiegen, wog, gewogen	to weigh
bezahlen	to pay for, to reimburse
bemalen	to paint
malen	to paint, to draw, to depict
streichen, stich, gestichen	to cancel, to paint, to delete
der Korb, die Körbe	basket
der Sack, die Säcke	sack, bag, bursa
das Gewicht, die Gewichte	weight
der Zeiger, die Zeiger	indicator, needle, pointer
der Strich	line, streak, stroke, bar
die Gerechtigkeit	justice, equity, fairness
ziehen	haul, pull
der Lederrücken	spine
aufschreiben	to write down, to record
auszahlen	to distribute, to pay sth. out (to so.)
der Groschen	penny
das Bonbon	hard candy, candy
von denen	of these
das Gesicht, die Gesichter	face
giessen, goss, gegeossen	to pour, to water
der Zopf, die Zöpfe	pigtail, plait (of hair)
nachdenken	to reflect, ponder
entstehen, entstand, ist entstanden	to arise, emerge, to come into being or existence
achten	to regard, to esteem, to venerate, to think highly of
das Flachsbrecken	flax breaking
abnehmen	to decrease, to drop, decline, to remove, take off
reichen	to reach, to stretch, to be enough
abkaufen	to buy from
seitdem	since, ever since, since that time
abliefern	to deliver something
verfeinern	to refine, to cultivate
seitdem (conj., adv.)	since, since then
das Mehl	flour, meal
das Hohlmass, die Hohlmasse	gallon?
das Ei, die Eier	egg
stimmen	to be right, to be in harmony, to be true
anvertraut	committed, entrusted, confided; entrusted to sb.'s care
der Fleiß	diligence, application, industry
anvertauren	to confide, entrust; trust a person with something
bezahlen	to paz; to pay for (goods); discharge, settle
der Adelsstand	peerage; nobility; noble rank
erheben, erhob, erhoben	to rainse; lift; fig. to elevate, extol
in den Adelsstand erboben (werden=	to ennoble; (to receive a knighthood)
der Riese	giant
berechnen	sum up; total; determine; value
schenken	to give; grant; endow; give a person a present.
die Alle, die Allen	avenue, blvd.; tree-lined road
dorthin	there; to that place, thither
herrichten	fix up; prepare, get ready; tidy
vorzählen	enumerate; count out
die Schale, die Schalen	1.shell (of eggs, nuts, etc.); skin; husk, rind;<br />2. bowl; basin; tray, pan
liegenbleiben	keep lying; remain on hand; be discontinued
fassen	to have a capacity of; to accommodate sth.; to grab, grasp, grip
verkleben	to cement, to glue
klopfen	to knock, rap; to pound(heart)
heftig	vehement; violent; fierce; furious
hängenbleiben	to get caught; to catch; to get stuck; jam, stick; fig. be detained
dir Schaden(ä)	damage, injury, harm
anrichten	to dress, prepare; work(mischief), cause(havoc)
herabkommen	come down; descend
schötten = giessen	to pour
zertreten, zertrat, zertreten	to tread down, crush under foot; fig. crush
auslachen	laugh at; deride
der Pfarrer, die Pfarrer	parson, minister
hindurch	right or straight through
das Städtchen	small town
riechen, roch, gerochen	to smell
der Glühwein	warm wine with spices
naß	wet, damp, moist, dripping
festhalten	to keep hold of sth.; to put sth. on record
hinhalten	to hold out, proffer, tender
wüten	to rage, storm; of a person: to rave, foam
wütend	furious; irate; mad (auf/über at)
der Zweig, die Zweige	bough, branch
der Pfannkuchen	pancake
hinstellen	to arrange, to situate; to put down
sich hinstellen	to position onesself
das Deka	deca (ten to the 1st); Dekagramm - ten gramms
prügeln	to trash, to flog, to beat with cudgel
schweigen, schwieg, geschwiegen	to keep silent, to keep silent
liefern	to deliver; to provide so. sth.
schulden	to owne so. sth.
die Geschwister	pl. brothers and sisters
das Wappen	coat of arms
der Hochruf, die Hochrufe	cheer
der Glückwunsch, die Glückwünsche	congratulations
wenden, wandte, gewandt/gewendet	to turn, to turn around
sich wenden, wandte, gewandt/gewendet	to turn, to address oneself to sb.
zuwenden, zuwandte, zugewandt/zugewendet	to turnwards, to face
sich zuwenden, zuwandte, zugewandt/zugewendet	to turn to sth.
stumm	silently, speechlessly, mutely
feindlich	hostile(to), antagonistic(ally)
steigen, stieg, gestiegen	to climb, hike, ascend
steigern	to increase, to gain
die Kanzel	pulpit
friedlich	amicable, untrouble, peaceful
die Messe	trade fair; massgg
einsteigen, stieg ein, eingestiegen	to get in, to boardclimb, hike, ascend
errechnen	to calculate sth.
die Gewalt	force
